---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.3
date: 2024-02-04 14:30
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

***
## Creation
 - Added an explanation for what "Upgrades Into" and "Upgrades From" actually mean in the Uniques section of character creation for clarity; it got lost at some point.

#### Villages
 - Hitori's Incarnation of Desert jutsu now has a Speed again, of 16.


## Jutsu
 - Clarified in the rules for Combo Breaking that attacking a clone does not break your combo.
 - Added an explanation for what ".extra" and .open" mean under Katon for those not as old as dirt.

#### Taijutsu
 - Escape Grapple properly states it is usable by the defender of a grapple only.
 - Two new D-Rank weapon jutsu were added: Ichichi and Ageshio, which are jutsu for Melee Small, and Melee Large, weapons respectively.
 - Cross Wave is again a D-rank weapon jutsu; Blade Honing is again a C-rank weapon jutsu. If you happened to have Blade Honing (I doubt it), and you would otherwise be disqualified for it based off of its new Rank, you can still keep it and use it, though you must pay the difference between its old and new XP cost.
 - More changes will come to weapon jutsu (and potentially to their associated parts: namely the Swordsman Corps clan) in the next few weeks, as the intent is to ensure there's a jutsu for every 'weapon category' for every rank, if possible. Expect to see C-rank weapon jutsu changed in the next week or two, accordingly.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Raiton's Tesla Minor (B-Rank) and Tesla Major (A-Rank) were clarified in how they function when attacking, and given minor tweaks: Minor costs slightly less, Major inflicts more Paralysis.
 - Fuuton's Violent Wind Palm had its extra +5 to its Chakra Control vs Athletics roll removed.

#### Genjutsu
 - Iron Curtain now properly lists its Interrupt quality again.

## Summon Contracts
 - Slug Slime has listed a -X penalty to grapple rolls without defining X for about fifteen years; now it does, and now scales slightly better based off of X, both for its Upkeep cost and benefits.