---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.9
date: 2024-03-17 05:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Villages
 - Baika (Akimichi) had its addition of an Area to Taijutsu attacks clarified to be Melee only.
 - Uchiha's Eye of Prediction explicitly states it does not work with Willpower.
 - Uchiha's Kyouten Chitin had is statistics updated to clarify that its Chakra cost is 'special' (and equal to the Genjutsu being reflected) and that its X is the Speed of the Genjutsu being reflected.

## Combat
 - Take the Hit states it doesn't work against Area of Effect attacks now, and points to Defensive Formation for such use cases.
 - Variable Speed Actions are now forcibly Aborted by Stun (of any severity).  This may require some changes to Stun effects down the road if they prove to be too potent overall.
 - Stun also had a sentence indicating as much.
 - Perform Handseals is notably not ended by Stun, and states as much.  It also had it added that your hands are not free to do things like Parry while performing handseals, because they are.. performing handseals.
 - Sneak Attacks gained a paragraph detailing how Jutsu with a Seal Speed above 0 work as Sneak Attack interrupts (spoiler: they do it poorly).

## Abilities
 - Endurance Block explicitly states that you declare it when you declare Block as your defensive interrupt, rather than after you see the damage.
 - Homing had it added that it's usable for damage-dealing *attack* Ninjutsu in particular, and notably do not function with ninjutsu that are interrupts which turn into attacks (such as Sickle Wind, or Rising Phoenix Blast).

## Jutsu
 - Clarified in Bunshin rules that clones with their own fatigue can not use the Medical Ninjutsu Vital Repair or Mystic Palm.  This is to prevent an exploit regarding immediate benefits versus delayed costs.  This notably does include (and actually, mostly only affects) Shadow and Wood clones, who can otherwise take any action.

#### Taijutsu
 - Burning Star Shuriken (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) now destroys the weapon it's used with when the tag(s) detonate.
 - Counter Throw's description was updated to match its statistics (it erroneously listed its base cost as Stamina 8).
 - Reppuu now mentions that it is not limited by the speed of the attack dodged.
 - Chain Serpent (D-rank Weapon Taijutsu) had it clarified that any Trip attempts performed with it uses Chain Serpent's Accuracy, and does not modify it, and clarified how Willpower works with it.


#### Ninjutsu 
 - Tremor (E-Rank Doton) had its standalone use statistics nerfed to CE 11, Speed 8, and SS 4.
 - Compass Technique (E-rank Raiton) gained a new usage of creating an alarm zone.
 - Sticky Fire (D-Rank Katon) can no longer be set off by itself, because.. yeah.
 - Devil's Cooking Pot (B-Rank Katon) can no longer be set off by itself.  This is never something you would want to do anyway.
 - Mist Blaze Dance (C-Rank Katon), Devil's Cooking Pot, and Dragon King Blast (A-Rank Katon) all lose their 'can not be dodged' quality if they detonate on the same IC in which they're used (they effectively become normal, though quite large, Area of Effect attacks at that point).


#### Genjutsu
 - Illusory Mist (E-Rank Genjutsu) had its IFF moved from its fluff text to its effects, just to clearly indicate the user can avoid affecting allies with it if they wish, and states the mist moves with its user.

## Equipment
 - First Aid Kits can now clear the status effect Bleed in the same way they do Burns.  Just a decade or so overdue for the most basic aspect of a First Aid Kit to be functional..

## Talents
- Kage Bunshin had it clarified that when unsummoning clones whose turn in the initiative count is simultaneous to yours, who choose not to act, they are unsummoned at the end of that IC, since 'immediately' caused confusion about potential exceptions to how simultaneous actions work, which are confusing enough already.
- Kyudaigumo (Spider Contract Summon) has a Chakra Exhaustion bonus of +15, for when it's necessary.
- Slug Swarm (Slug Contract Summon) clarified that they pay no cost for utilizing Acid Shot.
