---
layout: post
title: Version 3.1.1
date: 2024-01-20
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

#### Villages 
- Human Bullet Tank ends any grapples the Akimichi is in control of when they use it.
- Tsuga was updated to no longer reference Runner, as it no longer applies to it.
- Monkasei's Purification jutsu was changed to explicitly not follow Jiton's normal minimum CE 10 rule.

## Combat
 - Blunt minor wounds are no longer 'extending', in order to prevent a soft IC lock from repeated applications stacking addictively, and they were standardized in their durations and scaling.

## Abilities
 - A new subcategory in Equipment was made: Weapons, General.  This is for weapon abilities that can apply to ranged or melee weapons.
 - Weapon Focus, Blunt: Stun, Piercing: Penetrate, and Slashing: Perfect Cut all have been moved into it.  You do not need to update your sheet for this (though you can).

## Jutsu
 - Great Breakthrough (C-rank Fuuton) was clarified in that its doubling of the user's NDB applies only to its damage.
 - Reverted a change in Instant Cremation: it is once more a 'special Upkeep' in that its Upkeep is unaffected by uniques or wounds.

## Advancement
 - To celebrate the one-week anniversary of the game's launch, and to show appreciation for all those who are helping me to test this and try to make this game better in a lasting way, everyone with an active character gains +10 XP!  You can mark it on your sheet as a GM award, with this version (3.1.1) as the note.
