---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.4
date: 2024-02-11 18:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

## Creation
 - Instances of "reduce all/any damage you take by X" should all properly be labeled/listed as "Damage Reduction": There's no mechnical difference between these two things, and any remaining instances will be updated accordingly if found.

#### Villages
 - Kaguya's Realignment Skeletal Modification was clarified in how it works.
 - The Uchiha have successfully rebuilt themselves to the point its academy graduates are all capable of unlocking their doujutsu and, accordingly, begin with Stage 1 Sharingan unlocked at creation; Stage 2 and Stage 3 require 1000 and 2000 EXP, respectively (or sooner, with zenkai).
 - Monkasei got several changes to their clan meant to make them more viable at the top and bottom end in regards to their links and uses, with buffs and nerfs in places.  This should hopefully make them feel less clunky on the whole.
 - Swordsman Corps are now slightly more trusting of their genin, and allow them to gain a Clan Sword at 2500 XP if they have not attained Chuunin rank by then; Clan Swords were also overhauled in how you build them, and what choices you have.

## Abilities
 - Piercing: Penetrate was reverted back to how it used to be: it lets you ignore any armor your opponent is wearing.

## Jutsu
 - Weapon Jutsu and Combo Jutsu rules (in Jutsu Rules) were updated for clarity.
 - Bunshin rules were revised to be more clear in how they function.
 - Accordingly, all Bunshin were changed to try and remove duplicate information that's been consolidated, which includes the following Bunshin: Iwa, Moku, Mushi, Mizu, Raiton, Kage.

#### Taijutsu
 - Weapon jutsu are now formatted slightly differently: "As weapon" has been changed to "(Weapon)".  This is mostly an aesthetics thing, and to help differentiate links versus weapon attacks.
 - First Blood (D-rank Weapon Taijutsu) was changed to a link.
 - Flash Blade (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was changed to say "Type" instead of "Requires". This is to follow standard formatting.
 - One Star (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) had its range nerfed, from CHA/2 to CHA/4.
 - Headsplitter (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) had its on-miss speed increase removed, and gained a new (beneficial) effect.
 - Chain Serpent (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was overhauled.
 - Centipede Strike (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was changed to a link.
 - Double Star Fang (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was changed to a link.
 - Manipulated Shuriken (D-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was changed to be a link.
 - Chakra Flow (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) had its Lightning (Raiton) effect changed: It now applies Paralysis 2 on hit, and ignores armor.  Wind (Fuuton)'s effect had its example clarified that it also can't wound.
 - Vital Strike (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was changed to be a link; it originally *was* a link, and has seen a few different iterations over the years. It has also been changed in how it works.
 - Two new C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu were added: Issen (for Swords) and Kuro Budounoki (for Chains).
 - Rotation Strike (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) had its cost changed, and its range increased to 4.
 - Burning Star Shuriken (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) had its Chakra cost removed, and was clarified in how you defend against the secondary explosion.
 - Blade Honing (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) is now for Dual weapons only and had its Chakra cost and Speed increased by 2 each.
 - Oak Flight (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was overhauled. 
 - Twisting Stab (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) was overhauled.
 - Raining Needles (C-Rank Weapon Taijutsu) had its double fatigue cost changed to only a CE cost, its Area reduced, its formatting fixed, and clarified how you defend against it.
  - Grab (E-Rank Grapple Taijutsu) had it added that you may not hide, be hidden from, or need to roll a clone miss chance, against someone you're grappling.  This is long-standing errata being added in for clarity.


#### Ninjutsu 
 - Earthen Skewer (D-Rank Doton) had its effect text changed to be more concise.
 - Clay Bullet (D-Rank Doton) had its CE cost increased by 1.
 - Lightning Strike (D-Rank Raiton) had its CE cost decreased by 1.
 - Violent Wind Palm (C-rank Fuuton) had its Speed increased to 8, from 6.

## Equipment
 - A new piece of Genin equipment has been added under Rank Gear: Kusari Katabira.
 - Flak Vests (Rank Gear, Chuunin) had the amount of damage reduction they provide (and the rate at which it decays) doubled.

## Advancement
 - A new subsection, 'Rerolling/Remaking', was added, which details what was already in the discord announcement concerning rerolling.
