---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.8
date: 2024-03-10 17:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

#### Villages
 - Uchiha's Foresight ability now has the declare Speed include the combined Seal Speed + Speed of the technique you're using; this both allows defenders more valid Speed for their interrupt, but also essentially allows a Uchiha's seals to be uninterruptble by adding to their Fatigue cost.
 - Uchiha's Sharingan can be performed by itself, or alongside another action or interrupt, at Speed 0.
 - Akimichi's Human Bullet Tank clarified that the only attack you can perform while doing so is the Bowl attack.
 - Juugo Suto's Tenacity ability was changed to, uh, properly reflect the fact that Current is applied before its Maximum reduction, with an example for clarity.
 - Yamanaka's Mind Body Switch had its free roll to break free added back when advancing a Fatigue level with it, and clarified how it functions with clones and allies, as well as how Fatigue affects its Gen def roll to break free.
 - Hyuuga's Sealed Tenketsu from Jyuuken conversion was lowered by one per rank (no longer applying to E-rank, 1 for D, etc).

#### Uniques 
 - Naturalist's Seal Speed reduction is now only for Ninjutsu, and does not lower the Seal Speed of Genjutsu.
 - Strong-Willed had it clarified that its ability to ignore a Wound is only in Combat.
 - Weapon Master correctly states it upgrades into Fan of Knives now.
 - Applied Knowledge had its Skill bonus capped at +5.  No one is close to it yet, it's just insurance for the future.

## Combat
 - Piercing Wounds, Minor and Major, had their Needling severities increased by one (from 1 to 2, for Minors, and 2 to 3, for Majors). This is a buff.
 - Punctured Cavity (Torso Piercing Major Wound) had its Stun increased, from 4 to 10, and its future Stuns nerfed, from (Needling*2) to (Needling).
 - Organ Hemorrhage (Abdomen Piercing Major Wound) had its initial effect and future application effect merged to apply a 1+Needling/3 penalty to fatigue rolls.
 - Defensive Rolls had old errata added in that was always true, but made more explicitly clear, in regards to what is a defensive roll.
 - Genjutsu had it clarified that bonuses, penalties, and effects which apply to defensive rolls (or accuracy) don't apply to Genjutsu rolls, along with reiterating that d20 modifiers do, along with Fatigue.

## Abilities
 - Fortitude's bonus to Resistance rolls was halved (to +1 per rank), but no longer has its bonus halved if you are using Block as a Variable Speed Action but elect to defend a different way.
 - Holding Back's wound severity reduction no longer keeps Genjutsu from breaking.

## Jutsu
 - Genjutsu Training is properly stated to be a requirement for every single rank of Genjutsu, not just E.
 - Attacks with multiple elemental natures are allowed to be of multiple types, again, but the defender chooses which is more favorable for their defense.
 - Clarified in Bunshin rules that clones which are independent (Wood and Shadow clones) how they operate when fighting without their creator.

#### Taijutsu
 - Blade Honing (D-rank Weapon) got its description updated and some wording fixed to clarify it's working with both weapons (as it is for Dual only).
 - Kage Buyou (C-rank Unarmed) was nerfed: its bonus now only applies to the person who knocked them airborne (rather than anyone) and only for the next Unarmed Taijutsu (rather than any number of them until they land).
 - Headbutt's example properly references Vitality instead of HP.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Rising Phoenix Blast (B-Rank Katon) now has a proper listed range of 20, and clarified that if someone is beyond the listed range, you can still use it to defend, but the return attack will automatically miss.
 - Extinguishment (D-rank Suiton) had its description and effects updated to properly reflect that it can now be used both to lower Ignites and gain control over battlefield water temporarily, but only destroys water in the case of lowering Ignites affecting you. 
 - Wave of Inspiration (C-rank Raiton) was updated to follow the above changes to attacks of multiple elemental natures.

#### Genjutsu
 - Five Monkey Curse was lowered from B- to C-rank (with adjustments to its cost and speeds appropriately), and had its stacking Visility Penalty removed.  Anyone who purchased it at B-rank can refune an appropriate amount of XP.

## Talents
 - Kage Bunshin had their mention of 'mentally commanding' removed (as you do not have a mental link with them), and explicitly state that they act independently of you (which was always the case, but not explicitly stated).