---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.2
date: 2024-01-28 05:30
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

## Uniques 
- Specialist had its Fatigue benefits and penalties changed and reduced (and essentially reverted to what they've been in prior versions), granting +2 to fatigue rolls of your chosen specialty, and -2 to fatigue rolls of your deficit.


## Combat
- Stun, the status effect, no longer prevents you from spending AP.
- Wounds in general were given a pass through to remove erroneous mentions of afflictions (such as a wound referencing a status effect it no longer applies), and several were modified for readability.
- Bruised Ribs (Blunt, Minor, Torso) had its Shock status increased to 2, from 1.
- Side Burns (Energy, Severe, Abdomen) has its effect trigger when equal to or greater than (it used to just be the latter).
- Slow Roasted (Energy, Critical, Abdomen) now properly increases the speed of Rest again (it didn't for a moment, apologies).
- Melted Leg (Energy, Critical, Leg) had its Movement Speed reduction reduced to 25%, from 30%.
- Needling (Piercing Wound status effect) has a new paragraph: It now combines the various effects of Piercing wounds, adding up various severities for its status effects, and retains all of its penalties until you get rid of the status, to better reflect how it's meant to work. If this becomes an issue, it may be toned down in the future.
- Joint Pierced (Piercing, Major, both for Arms and Legs) had their durations for their penalties reduced from (Needling * 10) IC to (Needling * 5) IC.
- Shoulder Orifice (Piercing, CRitical, Arm) more clearly applies to both damage bonuses.
- Injured Spine (Slashing, Critical, Torso) had its Paralysis status effect changed to Shock, to better match its intended effect.

## Jutsu
- Jutsu Rules now properly listed 'Status Roll' with a brief explanation of how it functions.
- Water Fang Bullet (B-rank Suiton) had its duplicate Speed entry removed.
