---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.6
date: 2024-02-25 16:30
inline: false
related_posts: false
---


#### Villages
 - Hozuki had a few aspects of them reverted: they lost their hydration form damage reduction % for Doton and Fuuton, are no longer immune to Ranshinshou, and can no longer use their inherent gallons for upkeeps or clones.  They take more damage from Raiton (though less than past versions, still), and the section on Nintaijutsu was clarified in what it refers to, since it confused people. 
 - Butterfly Bullet Bomb (Akimichi Pill-enabled jutsu) had its cost decreased from 250 to 150.
 - Henzaki no longer gain a bonus to Stamina rolls from Homeostasis.
 - All Paraelemental clans were updated slightly to state that the process of converting to their unique element is, in fact, a link (it always has been treated as one, but now states as much), and had its +5 Chakra Cost separated from the changes based on its element.
 - Uchiha's Sharingan had its Skill bonus moved from Stage 1 to Stage 2; Stage 2 and 3 lost their bonuses to Defensive rolls and Accuray, and Stage 3 instead increases the skill roll bonus to +2.

#### Uniques 
 - Applied knowledge had its special action clarified in how it works (it can be used on its own, or as a link), and had its Speed increased to 4, from 2.
 - Defender had its return damage clarified to only work on damage dealing unarmed attacks.
 - Restrained had it clarified it does not let your clones use your full Damage Bonus from its effect (it only applies to you, not your clones).
 - Expansive Chakra had its effects reduced (reverted, really) to what they were before: -1 to CE costs per rank, half that as a bonus to your NDB.
 - Seal Master had its Seal Speed reduction reduced to DEX/8, and its Speed reduction ability reduced to DEX/40. 
 - Killing Intent had its Stun amount capped at 15.

## Combat
 - The way in which Status effects are largely stated (as simply 'Status: ') was clarified under Status Effects: It's already stated in Jutsu Rules, but updated here for consistency.

## Abilities
 - Combat Acupuncture had its Limit changed from DEX/10 to DEX/20, max 5, and clarified that its maximum Immobility penalty is equal to your Rank + 1.

## Jutsu
 - Fuinjutsu which are applied to a person (an enemy, I hope) were changed to be link jutsu that can be applied to any basic unarmed attack.
 - It was made *even more explicitly clear* in 'Created Weapons, enhanced attacks, and you!' that you do not get any bonuses from a paraelement when making attacks with weapons created by it, enhanced by an Upkeep of the element, or by links of the element.  This was already true, people just really enjoy forgetting that they know about this rule.

#### Taijutsu
 - One star and Two Star (Fan Weapon Taijutsu) now explicitly state they can only be parried by things which can parry Ninjutsu.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Twister Shot (D-Rank Fuuton) had its damage reverted back to 4d4 * 5.
 - Vaccuum Wave (C-rank Fuuton) no longer penalizes dodges based on its Area of Effect.
 - Violent Wind Palm (C-Rank Fuuton) had its damage lowered from 4d6 * 5 to 3d6 * 5 when used as an attack; as a link or as an interrupt, its damage is now 2d6 * 5.
 - Vacuum Serial Waves (B-Rank Fuuton) had its Chakra Cost increased by 5, and its X Accuracy bonus removed.
 - Vacuum Sphere (B-Rank Fuuton) had its text updated just to match and reflect the example.
 - Vacuum Great Sphere (A-Rank Fuuton) had its status effects (Stun and Knockback) added as a 'Status:' line, and no longer ignores Partial Success.
 - Violent Water Wave (C-Rank Suiton) had its Accuracy bonus removed.
 - Water Fang Bullet (B-Rank Suiton) had its Accuracy bonus removed.
 - Water Dragon Blast (B-Rank Suiton) had its Accuracy bonus removed.
 - Water Shark Blast (C-Rank Suiton) and Exploding Water Shockwave (B-Rank Suiton) had their effects changed slightly to hopefully better explain how they work, along with removing the option to go 'past' your target with them.  Effects which prevent your movement can not be bypassed with them, though things which slow you still are.
 - Temporary Paralysis (C-Rank General Ninjutsu) had its description updated to better reflect how it works.
 - Manipulating Attack Blades (C-Rank General Ninjutsu) was changed to become an Upkeep that lets you maintain control over Kunai to throw them repeatedly.
 - Attached Meteor (D-rank Fuinjutsu) had its explicit statement that it's a ranged taijutsu attack returned to it.
 - Lightning Blade Creation (B-Rank Fuinjutsu) was made an Exclusive Seal.
 - Moji Hyouki (B-Rank Fuinjutsu) had its Accuracy penalty added back for offensive jutsu used with it (sorry).
 - Five Elements Seal (A-Rank Fuinjutsu) had its CE penalty reduced to -20.

## Equipment
 - Sai's Disarm interrupt is usable against only non-Large weapons again.
 - Flash Bombs had the way they work reverted to their prior (and moreso original) version, but had their cost increased, from 30 Ryo to 50.