---
layout: post
title: Update 3.1.5
date: 2024-02-18 03:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

## Creation
 - 
 - 

#### Villages
 - Sabechi had their mutations given more clarity in how they function as natural weapons.
 - Hyuuga had their finishers given their special effects again, and Kaiten had its effect text changed slightly (to allow it to be used against AoE ninjutsu explicitly, along with some clarifying text for those in its area).
 - Kairaishi had their puppets explanation slightly modified to be, hopefully, a little clearer.  It's probably going to be a work in progress sort of thing.


#### Uniques 
 - Bruiser had its Stun effect to Unarmed attacks specified to work only with damage dealing unarmed attacks.


## Combat
 - Updated Shock and Paralysis status effects: They do not stack, you take the penalty of only the highest one you're afflicted by. In the case of ties, you take the one with the longer duration. Accordingly, all entries of Shock and Paralysis *should* be updated now to indicate its duration.

## Abilities
 - Guard had its mention of Crossroads of Heaven removed, as it does not apply to it.
 - Homing was changed to apply only to damage dealing ninjutsu.

## Jutsu
 - Raiton as a category underwent a number of changes (again); notably, Paralysis and Shock were reverted as to how the status effects are applied, no longer stacking and instead having set durations for how long they last (similar to the original Paralysis), along with a bunch of minor changes to the severities of Paralysis and Shock its jutsu inflict, along with a few shifts of its jutsu costs up or down by a few points.
 - Shocking Burst was effectively reverted to how it used to be: it now deals damage again, can not have its Speed reduced below 4, and no longer penalizes dodges based on its area when used as an area of effect, along with having its Shock severity reduced by 1.

#### Taijutsu
 - Halting Blow (Unarmed, D-Rank) was clarified in that it's an unarmed parry against a melee attack, so that people don't think they can halting blow against shuriken.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Dokugiri was buffed (mostly just giving it back its full effect by adding Shock to it that it used to have), and slightly nerfed, as you no longer gain +5 to resist your own poison mist.  The Paralysis and Shock also now state clearly that they last until you leave the cloud.


## Summon Contracts
 - Dog Spirit Possession had Shock added to the effects that it helps reduce.
