---
layout: post
title: Update 3.2.6
date: 2024-07-05 15:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Villages
 - Niou's Genshin now states you can Hide without needing to meet its normal requirements, rather than 'at will'.
 - Niou's Maboroshi allows those you hide with it to use the Niou's stealth roll in place of their own, rather than their TN.
 - Hitori's CHA/30 bonus to Shakuton techniques has been reduced to CHA/40.
 - Hitori's Shakuton deals 70% normal damage, down from 75%.
 - Touu's Flying Water Needles only consumes half the Water/Ice used with it, can be defended against as a multi-throw, and if inflicts a secondary wound if it deals a wound greater than Minor.  It also got a flat damage buff of CHA/2, and had its base Speed reduced by 2.

#### Uniques 
 - Elemental Mastery is now explicit about its status effects requiring you to hit with a damage-dealing attack.
 - Killing Intent's bonus to the opposed d20 roll when wounding someone now grants a bonus based on how many attacks the user has made have wounded someone.

## Jutsu
 - 'Preparation' was added as a tag for all the Upkeeps which are capable of being activated when rolling initiative, with the ability.

#### Taijutsu
 - Chain Serpent (D-rank Weapon) was changed slightly: it has a single Accuracy, and you defend against it only once (for increasing your IC).  You still make multiple rolls as the target to roll against each aspect individually.
 - Black Vines (C-rank Weapon) now states explicitly that you declare a single defense that is used against both portions of its attack. Like with Chain Serpent, this should make it more consistent.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Water Prison (C-rank Suiton) automatically fails if used on someone in a grapple, unless the person(s) in control of the grapple choose to end it in order to let Water Prison capture its target.  It is not a method to free anyone from a grapple.

#### Genjutsu
 - Tree Binding Death's immobility doesn't prevent someone from being moved.  Being moved doesn't mean you recognize you are in a genjutsu.

## Talents
 - Yojimbo (Hare Contract Summon) specify in their effects, rather than in the Compatriots feature, that they can be summoned twice a week.