---
layout: post
title: Update 3.2.3
date: 2024-05-17 16:30
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Villages
 - Akimichi's Pills state that they are an Ability.
 - Monkasei's Sand Burial has its X capped at 10, now, and can't be a called shot. It still clears the entire status.

## Combat
 - Fatigue > Upkeeps now states that you may only have one instance of any given upkeep active at once.  This was always true, but it needed stating.

## Abilities
 - Savings no longer counts against the 'XP Cap', but now has its own limit, of 5% of your Total XP.  Likewise, it's now explicit that you can not buy any consumable item with Savings, to prevent some mild abuse cases.  ST's are encouraged to allow for more opportunities to utilize (though not necessarily *award*) Savings, with this.  The first person to ask about player housing gets -10 XP.

#### Taijutsu
 - Escape Grapple (E-rank Grapple) now states that it ends all grapples you're currently in.
 - Steel Wall (D-rank Weapon) had its initial Upkeep lowered from 2 to 0.

#### Ninjutsu
 - Water-Cutting Blade (D-Rank Suiton) persists until you let go of it, like all other ninjutsu-created weapons.
 - Syrup Capture Field (C-Rank Suiton) never adds its gallons of water back to the battlefield.
 - Vaulting Leap (C-rank Fuuton) had it clarified that you are moving vertically and horizontally with its use.
 - Retsudotensho (C-rank Doton) has its Immobility penalty fade at the normal rate, now.
 - Yomi Numa (A-rank Doton) has its Immobility penalty fade at the normal rate, now.
 - Raikyuu (E-rank Raiton) no longer needs a 'metal' weapon: it simply uses two weapons.
 - Shocking Burst (E-rank Raiton) had its Shock 2 nerfed to Paralysis 1, still for 20 IC.
 - Shuurai (D-rank Raiton) had its Paralysis 2 changed to Shock 2, and its Accuracy bonus now triggers from Shock.
 - Avenging Lightning God (C-rank Raiton) no longer cares about metallic vs nonmetallic weapons: it simply deals half damage to them.
 - Rising Phoenix Blast (B-rank Katon) is no longer a Surprise Attack when used against a melee attack.
 - Element Sealing Method (B-rank Sealing) was rewritten and made to be more generally useful, courtesy of Soul.
 - Moji Hyouki (B-rank Sealing) was clarified that it can't be placed on equipment, or on anything you bring into combat with you: In essence, that is what Transcription is for, and Moji Hyouki is for more traditional (chakra-based) trap-setting. 

#### Genjutsu
 - Mist Servant (D-rank Genjutsu) now states that you make a Stealth roll to determine your Stealth TN.

## Equipment
 - Equipment has had two tags added to relevant items: Armor and Consumable.

## Advancement
 - Desert Adaptation had its example text fixed.