---
layout: post
title: Update 3.2.4
date: 2024-05-24 16:30
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Villages
 - Hyuuga's Sealed Tenketsu is now explicit about it applying on hit.
 - Touu's Frostbite is now explicit about it applying on hit.
 - Hitori's Dehydrate is now explicit about it applying on hit, and had its mention of 'damage dealing jutsu' under Shakuton's effects removed.

#### Uniques 
 - Elemental Mastery's option to add Shock to non-Raiton jutsu now is a choice between adding shock or duration when using 10+ points from the shaping pool on it, rather than increasing both.
 - Large's base Speed increase to actions was reduced to 1 (from 2).


## Combat
 - Parry now states that you only parry with a single weapon: there is no 'dual weapon parry' option.
 - Status Effects is now explicit about paraelemental clans dealing their status effects on hit, without the need to deal damage or make a status roll.

## Abilities
 - Cunning Blow explains more clearly how it works.
 - Monkey Grip states that it is a non-action to change how you hold a weapon.
 - Ambidextrous lost its stipulation that you use the lower Accuracy of the two weapons you are wielding: its bonus is present anytime you are wielding two weapons.
 - Bingo Book, the ability, now states outright it is required for making Research rolls on active ninja (according to their Infamy).

## Jutsu
 - Clones automatically copy any genjutsu affecting their creator at the time they're created.  The Clone  rules list grows..

#### Taijutsu
 - Twisting Stab (C-rank Weapon) was reverted to its anti-block effect.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Roof Tile Shuriken (C-Rank General Ninjutsu) was removed because people want to destroy rooftops indiscriminately.  If you happened to have this jutsu, the XP cost is refunded for you.
 - Violent Wind Palm (C-rank Fuuton), when used to reflect a thrown weapon attack, uses the attack's original accuracy and speed.
 - Shocking Burst (E-Rank Raiton) had its Paralysis increased to 2.
 - Shuurai (D-rank Raiton) had its Speed reduced by 2, to 11.
 - Jinraisen (C-rank Raiton) had its Speed reduced by 6, to 10, and its Seal Speed increased by 3, to 15.
 - Ghoul Paralysis (C-rank Raiton) had its Shock duration reverted back to 40 IC, from failing a status roll against it.

#### Genjutsu
 - Haze Clone (D-rank Genjutsu) had its ability to choose how many clones you make removed: it now always makes three, with a non-scaling cost. The Upkeep that comes with them increases by one whether one clone or multiple are destroyed from an attack, removing the counterintuitive best use case of making a single clone.

## Advancement
 - Effects of Infamy now mentions a Bingo book explicitly.