---
layout: post
title: Update 3.2.1
date: 2024-03-31 17:15
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Villages
 - Hyuuga's One Blow Body uses NDB in place of PDB for its grapple roll.
 - Nara's Kagemane, Kagemane Shuriken, and Kageyose use NDB in place of PDB for their grapple rolls, with the first and last receiving bonuses on top of it.
 - Sand Fox's Tenacity got reworded (again.. sorry) to function as has been traditionally understood, maybe with less confusion.
 - Uchiha's Eye of Prediction states when you declare its use.  It did not mechanically change.
 - Akimichi's Partial Multi-Size had its Chakra cost changed from 5 * X to 6 + X * 2.


#### Uniques 
 - Bruiser's bonus to grapples was removed; its bonus to PDB affects grapple rolls now.
 - Large now grants a +3 to grapple rolls using PDB, instead of STR/8 replacing STR/10.

## Combat
 - Interrupts no longer reference 'actions with base speeds of 3 or below' as it kept confusing people, and the special rules regarding them mentioned in Flow of Time was moved down to Interrupts.
 - Mitigation Order has been updated to reflect how it works in ordering attacker-side modifications before defender-side ones, and is clear about their additive calculation.

## Abilities
 - Homing had its increase to the Chakra cost of jutsu it's used with increased by 1, to 3.
 - General Knowledge no longer gives a bonus to Resistance, as it allowed it to outpace Chakra Control severely; it in fact now gives a bonus to Chakra Control.

## Jutsu
 - All Instances of grapple checks should now be standardized to utilize PDB in place of STR/10, along with things that function like them; normal replacements (of CHA in place of STR) now use NDB in place of PDB.  In either case, you round the relevant Damage Bonus down to the nearest integer.  This is overall a buff to Taijutsu, as PDB can be increased more easily than NDB.
 - Chakra Control requirements for Ninjutsu have been increased by 5 for C, B, and A-rank jutsu; this will, unfortunately, apply retroactively, meaning that if you do not qualify for a jutsu based on its new, higher requirement, you will need to remove it from your sheet (or at least remove its cost) and be unable to use it again until you meet its new Chakra Control requirements.  I apologize for having to do this. The aggressive unlocking of ninjutsu has led to a lot of unwanted side effects that are ultimately best mitigated by simply undoing the change.  This does not affect Genjutsu, Fuinjutsu, or Medical Ninjutsu (or Taijutsu, obviously).

#### Taijutsu
 - Headbutt (E-rank Grapple) bases its wound dealt to the user off of the final damage dealt to the target it's used against, unaffected by the attacker's own reductions.
 - Headlock somehow got away with listing its Accuracy penalty as a 'strike' penalty all this time, and has been fixed.
 - Painful Sky Leg (C-rank Unarmed) had its text updated to reflect that parry can mitigate the shockwave.
 - Asshou and Houshou were reworded slightly, but unchanged mechanically.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Mud Wave (C-Rank Doton) specificies that it can add or increase an existing Stun of damage-dealing Doton.
 - Clay Bullet (D-rank Doton) uses your NDB in place of PDB when someone attempts a grapple check to remove its immobility penalty.
 - Suiben (C-Rank Suiton) had some clarifications added to it with how it works, and Raiton channeled through it can't be parried or dodged.
 - Art of the Raging Lion's Mane uses NDB+X place of PDB (which just replaces the old +X it got to grapple rolls specifically) for its grapple rolls.
 - Cloth Binding uses NDB in place of PDB for its grapple rolls (instead of CHA in place of STR).
 - Wind God's Breath lost its grapple immunity, its Fuuton accuracy bonus only affects the user (and only if the target is within its area), and the user now deals less Katon damage, with only the user taking more damage from Katon.
 - Crossroads of Heaven had its grapple immunity returned to it, and had its Upkeep increased by one, to 5.
 - Thunderclap (D-rank Raiton) had its Stun capped at 20.
 - Attached Meteor (D-rank Fuinjutsu) uses NDB in place of PDB for its grapple check.
 - Great Breakthrough (C-rank Fuuton) now requires a status roll for its Knockback.

#### Genjutsu
 - Sennou Sousa (A-rank genjutsu) is undetectable with Byakugan, and is clearer on its TN being a Genjutsu Offense opposed by Gen Def of someone using Jigyaku to attempt its removal.

## Equipment
 - Kusari-Gama's grapple rules got some additional clarifications: Joint Lock uses its damage, and clarified you can end the grapple by discarding the weapon whether you are in control of it or not (normally only relevant if someone shifts or attempts Reversal).

## Talents
 - Snake - Hidden Snake Hands uses your NDB in place of PDB for its Python 'grapple'.
