---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.5
date: 2024-12-24 12:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
Happy holidays, everyone!  As this is the last update of the year (and the game has gone on for almost an entire year), to celebrate the holidays (and help make some people perhaps not feel so left behind or like they're missing out by not being active here while busy with real life things), every character created on or before today gets +20 XP as a christmas present!  You can list it as a GM Award in the log.


#### Villages
 - Cho Harite (Akimichi) specifies it can only be used with Unarmed Taijutsu, rather than just 'Taijutsu'.

#### Uniques 
 - Elemental Mastery's Status bonuses were changed from being 5 Shaping Pool points each to 6, which means the maximum of any status you could apply from it was reduced from 6, to 5.

## Jutsu
 - Clones can not perform the A-rank Medical Ninjutsu Forsaken Rebirth.

#### Taijutsu
 - All Combo jutsu had their Preparation tags rescinded; apologies for the flip-flop on this, and if you solely happened to take Preparation for Combo upkeeps you can DM me, but I suspect no one has done that.  Pre-using them proved to be making Combos too convenient and easily maintained, however, when they're meant to be opportunity costs mid-combo as it relates to offensive pressure.  This affects Furious Charge, Lightning Warrior, and God of Battle.
 - Line of Attack (C-rank Combo) had its effects rewritten to better clarify what parts of it are related to being an Opener, and which are just its normal combo jutsu usage.
 - Rendan (D-rank Combo) was changed from d6's to d*, which means it scales with Power Attack (but is d4 by default).
 - Relentless Assault (C-rank Combo) was changed from 4d8 to 4d*.
 - Shishi Rendan (C-rank Combo) was changed from d8's to d*.
 - Lotus Combo (B-rank Combo) had X values added to its Speed and Stamina to hopefully better clarify how consecutive uses of it work, and was changed from d10's to d*.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Shuurai (D-rank Raiton) gets +1 accuracy from targeting someone affected by Paralysis, not Shock, now.
 - Juude (D-rank Raiton) is specific about ending, and gaining accuracy from, non-environmental sources; it was also changed from ending Shock to ending Paralysis.
 - Nerve Overloading (D-rank Raiton) is specific about its effects coming from non-environmental sources of Paralysis and Shock that are also Raiton-based.
 - Racing Thunder (D-rank Raiton) had its Upkeep increased to 4.
 - Wave of Inspiration (C-rank Raiton) also gains its bonuses if someone is standing in, or on, water.  Don't be that guy that asks if there being four gallons of water on the battlefield counts.
 - Chain Lightning (B-rank Raiton) has its Accuracy bonus based off of the target's Paralysis status, and does not count environmental sources; it also does not gain accuracy or damage when hitting a clone.
 - Sixteen Pillar Bind (A-rank Raiton) had its Area updated, and a confusing portion of the distance between sides removed.
 - Blazing Fury (C-rank Katon) had its Upkeep reverted to its original cost, of 5 (from 3).
 - Wind God's Breath (B-rank Fuuton) has its KB reduced by external Immobility penalties only, rather than all, and you can no longer hide while using it.
 - Eye of the Storm (A-rank Fuuton) had its base movement speed penalty reduced from 50% to 40%.

#### Genjutsu
 - Sennou Sousa (A-Rank Genjutsu) specifies that dispelling it is by using Genjutsu Offense (rather than Defense), using Jigyaku (B-rank Genjutsu).

## Equipment
 - Poison Smoke Bomb got a small update to include that spending 10 IC in the area forces another Resistance roll (and potentially poisons you again).
 - Umbrellas were once more changed; they now have 250 Durability, which is reduced when you use it to block, according to how much damage you take after factoring in blocking. 

## Advancement
 - Mentor can once again be taken via Prodigy, silly alts rejoice! It also got a number of changes; you can only teach people one Capability talent you know, rather than any/all of them, and the Infamy gains were codified for it.  Mentors gain bonuses when opposing their students, and Temporary WP when working with them.
