---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.3
date: 2024-10-25 04:20
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

As a foreword, the Staff member Thinkalot has stepped down from his position, but for those still in contact with him, please take a moment to thank him for all the work and time he's put into helping to maintain and update the sheet across many many changes, and for all the work he did to try to make the game better.  He will be missed, and welcomed back if he decides to return.

#### Villages
 - Monkasei's Sand Burial notes it can not receive damage from other techniques (such as Eye of the Storm).
 - Monkasei's Sand Coffin now can be applied with no added CE/Speed cost to Jiton which inherently apply Immobility penalties, and the jutsu's effect states as much.
 - Hyuuga's Sealed Tenketesu now specifies 'action' instead of 'technique' in regards to failing a CE roll with the status causing what you were doing to fail.
 - Aburame's Bug Jamming had some clarifications made to it: Disrupt Chakra Sensors does not impact regular Search rolls and is more specific about applying against attempts to detect the user via Chakra (Chakra Sensors and Natural Chakra users, mostly). It also had its CE cost increased by 5.

## Combat
 - The beginning of Wounding (under Wound Categories) more explicitly explains how Wounding increases work.

## Abilities
 - Principle of Motion can only be used after your first non-interrupt action in combat, now: Mostly, this means it can not be used to cover for a poor initiative roll (though WP'ing your initiative roll is still perfectly valid).  It also had some text added about how you can't use it with Variable Speed Actions, and the Move action (As those take place IC-by-IC).

## Jutsu
 - Clones now state how they handle forced fatigue effects: Those without fatigue of their own disappear as if struck if forced to make a fatigue roll, while those with fatigue of their own handle them normally.

#### Taijutsu
 - Ichichi (D-rank Weapon) had its Stamina cost increased by 1, and now allows you to apply a single dose of a single poison to the weapon you use to attack with.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Hidden Mist (D-rank Suiton) had its Effects text cleaned up some.
 - Clay Bullet (D-rank Doton) had its CE cost reduced by 1, from 15 to 14, and had its effects text removed, meaning it has no 'special ability' to have its Immobility status dealt with anymore, and simply has it reduce at the normal rate of 1 per 10 IC.
 - Double Suicide Decapitation Technique (D-rank Doton) had its mention of surprise attack removed; it still is one, it just doesn't need to say it, since it was referring to when using the technique while hidden, which would already make it a surprise attack.
 - Retsudotensho (C-rank Doton) has its Immobility penalty once more applying until they leave the area (rather than over time).
 - Dochuu Eigyo (C-rank Doton) finally had a Speed added, of approximately how many years it took to get it!  It's 12, by the way.
 - Iwa Renda (A-Rank Doton) had its requirement of 'Rocky Terrain' removed, and its range massively reduced, from NDB-based to simply 25.
 - Sando no Jutsu (A-rank Doton) had its inherent Accuracy penalty (of -10) removed, its Chakra cost increased by 5, and can not be Aborted once used. 
 - Eye of the Storm (A-rank Fuuton) received some changes: It gains DR only when using damage-dealing Fuuton (rather than any) and the amount it gains was changed from Spd * (NDB - (# of Ranks below A) * 2) to become more simply NDB * (Rank - 1), and it regained its old inherent -50% move speed, making it reduce you to 0% Movement Speed at 500 DR (rather than 1000), which it states more explicitly (to account for various movement speed increasing modifiers).
 - Manipulating Attack Blades (C-rank General Nin) states that its penalty to Parry rounds down, and how its Upkeep rounds up.

#### Genjutsu
 - Kasumi Juusha (D-rank) had the Area of Effect tag added.
 - Oboro Bunshin (D-rank) had the Area of Effect tag added.

## Equipment
 - Wandering Spider poison states its penalty rounds down.
 - 

## Talents
 - Mentor can no longer be acquired through the Prodigy talent.
 - Satsu no Usagi (Hare Contract) had his Genjutsu attribute removed, as he is immune to Genjutsu (for posterity, it was +40). He also had his attack, Sharp Teeth, doubled in base damage (to 10d20, from 5), and his Wounding bonus was doubled (to +100%, from +50%).  Beware the Hare.
 - Mountain Dogs (Canine Contract) had their base Accuracy increased to 40, from 35, and the duration of their Hamstring penalty increased by 5, to 25 IC.
 - Nekomata's Mirage (Feline Contract) was given more specificity on how it works, utilizing False Surroundings for the first layer of its Double False Surroundings, and either False Surroundings, Mirage, or Concealment for the second layer.  It also now states it goes into level 2 stealth if it opts to lounge and watch over its own illusion.
