---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.2
date: 2024-10-11 14:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
## Creation
 - Character creation explicitly states that uniques are, in fact, not able to be taken multiple times.  Because the name "Unique" was fuzzy on that.

#### Villages
 - Nara's Shadow Endgame technique had some clarifications added: it can retrieve objects directly from the Nara or unattended ones within range, its uses do not have any associated fatigue costs, but also can't have links or things which would increase their cost (such as weapon focus) applied to them.
 - Akimichi had a handful of things clarified, and some small changes: Baika's added Area is explicit about it not changing the targeted nature of single-target attacks, Human Bullet Tank had it clarified that you can move while Rolling but give up your secondary VSA choice until you stop moving and is not ended by Bowl attacks, which itself says the same thing, and clarified that you can not perform any jutsu with a seal speed, to avoid ES shenanigans.  The Speed and cost of the action to change Baika's Upkeep X, without ending and reactivating it, was changed to be more prohibitive, going from Speed Y, CP Y to Speed Y * 2, CP Y * 5, mostly to make it not the best choice to begin at X = 1, and to give more uses for Calorie Points.  The Pills also were clarified in 'normal' versus 'true' maximum for how many calorie points they restore.

## Combat
 - Almost all minor wounds have been reverted to how they were prior to 3.1. Generally speaking, it means that many of them have a longer duration: if they do not list any duration, they last until the end of the fight.  This should allow offense to feel like it can more capably "dig into" the starting high defensive setups many people run, and allow offense to change the dynamics of a fight more effectively.  Small, additional tweaks to minor wounds may happen in future updates.
 - Piercing wounds are a bit of an exception here, because Needling is mildly problematic as being either "too good" when someone hard-focsues them or "next to unnoticed". I've been fairly conservative with them, but have buffed their severities from 2 / 3 / 4 / 5 to 2 / 4 / 8 / 16, alongside reverting Needling to reduce your current AP immediately (rather than the next iteration of 20), as well as reducing your maximum (now to as low as half its normal amount).  
 - Stomache Blister (Energy, Minor, Abd) was not fully reverted: Both to make it less trivial for Gates users, and because popping blisters is.. eh!
 - The Slashing Head Minor wound (historically Blood in the Eyes, which had been swapped in location with Profuse Bleeding) was not reverted: It's a fairly strong minor wound as it stands.
 - Dazed (Blunt, Head, Major) was changed to coincide with the changes to the minor wounds, since it's always been tied to the Minor head blunt wound, and again ends all upkeeps (Rather than just those of Stun/2 or less in cost).
 - Fatigue is now explicit about uniques and effects that recover Stamina/Chakra fatigue penalties faster do not affect your recovery outside of battle.

## Jutsu
 - Clone rules, under the Clone tag, received some minor adjustments and clarifications.
 - Openers (for Combos) are explicit about not being able to stack the Opener effect that persists thoroughout a Combo, nor may they be changed mid-combo.  
 - Combo jutsu with an Upkeep can now be used outside of a Combo.  Notably, this means they also be used with the Preparation ability, and have the appropriate tag.  The notable exception here is God of War, which is an Upkeep linked to a Finisher.

#### Taijutsu
 - Dai Dageki (B-rank Taijutsu) is explicit about Power Attack being free for it, and had its Damage listing standardized.

#### Ninjutsu
- Rising Phoenix Blast (B-rank Katon) was changed, after nearly ten months of hard work by the playerbase: When used as an attack, it receives double your ninjutsu damage bonus. When used as an interrupt, it does not.
- Eye of the Storm (A-rank Fuuton) now knocks people back when first activated if they fail a status roll, and its Knockback from using a Fuuton with it active can be resisted with a status roll.  Accordingly, it has lost the Preparation tag, because of it.

## Talents
 - Kage Bunshin received a small nerf, as the Upkeeps they copy over are now limited to those that only affect yourself.  In most cases this means they are limited to those with the 'Preparation' tag that they can copy over when created.  

## Summons
- Hydras (Snake contract) were missing a Genjutsu defense, and had it added; Combine also now increases it.
- Salamander Contract's Blue blood is explicit about allowing you to ignore the standard -10 Vis pen from having your eyes closed; it halves all other visibility penalties for the duration of its effect.
- Leech Swarm and Slug Swarm, from the Slug contract, both now have proper Swarm area sizes, of (Current Vitality)/150; this allows Leech swarms to stick to people a little easier, but also makes them more susceptible to Area of Effect attacks.