---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.4
date: 2024-11-24 12:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

#### Villages
 - Partial Multi-Size indicates the Area increase/addition is for melee attacks.  Baika itself had that clarified a long time ago, Partial just hadn't been updated to reflect the same ruling.
 - Cho Baika clarifies its Grapple roll bonus applies to PDB-based grapple rolls.
 - Senju's Nativity of a Sea of Trees is explicit about clearing terrain-based effects.
 - Uchiha's Foresight can only be used against one target at a time; the actual technique you decide to use can still be an AoE (or anything you wish, following its normal rules), but anyone besides the main target you specify will defend against it normally.
 - Uchiha's Foresight also gained a new restriction: If you perform a jutsu with a final Seal Speed greater the Jutsu's rank, you can not utilize Principle of Motion until after your next non-interrupt action.
 - Hitori's Shakuton gained back 5% of its damage (to 75% normal damage), but lost its Wounding modifier altogether.
 - Hitori's Shakuton was reverted to CHA/30 (from CHA/40).
 - Kugutsu no Jutsu (Kairaishi) had its base range increased by 10, but its divisor lowered, from CHA/6 to CHA/10.
 - Kugutsu no Jutsu had the paragraph about how you utilize defensive interrupts with your puppets move above its actions section, so as to not confuse it with them.
 - Puppet Mastery (Kairaishi) was changed from Base Cost 0, Scale 5, to Base Cost 5, Scale 0.
 - Puppets (Kairaishi) had a pass-through for clarifying some facets of how they work, more explicitly stating that they are weapons which use weapons, and use your NDB in place of PDB.
 - Puppet Modifications explicitly state they cost 1 CP, by default.
 - The 'Quality' Puppet Modification increases how many stats you can allocate to a Puppet by 2 per time taken, rather than 1 (the first is still 10, but the second would be 12 points, third 14, etc).
 - Joint Plating (Puppet upgrade) had its limit reduced from RES/50 to RES/40.
 - Trap body (Puppet upgrade) had a requirement of Hollow Body added, and had some changes made to how it works, ideally to make it more clear.

#### Uniques 
 - Relentless had it clarified the damage bonus is for your next attack, not a generic and constant '+2 damage bonus' that would then modify anything beyond the next attack itself (Upkeeps, etc).
 - Fan of Knives was changed, modifying its damage bonus and range bonus slightly, and allowing you to throw additional weapons without increasing the speed/cost of the multi-throw, as well as allowing you 'hit by one more' when you do hit with a ranged taijutsu attack.

## Combat
 - Variable Speed Action (the action type) had it more explicitly stated that by default, all VSA's have the Abort property, unless they specify they do not allow for you to Abort them; all VSA's did in fact allow such, but it wasn't explicitly stated.
 - Block, as a Variable Speed action, allows you to now negate the effects of a Surprise Attack against you, so long as you elect to Block as your defensive response.  Notably, Interrupt Blocking does not have this quality.
 - Fatigue Levels includes a mention of how offensive/defensive roll penalties apply to things which call for an opposed initiative roll.

## Abilities
 - Desperation applies only once per attacker for that IC, though it can apply to any number of attackers that IC; accordingly, it also can not be activated more than once per IC.  This is mostly to prevent very very niche cases of Desperateion AoE interrupt damage spamming back and forth.
 - Guard, Total Defense, and Defensive Formation are explicit about being Variable Speed Actions (instead of more vaguely 'an action declared like blocking').

 ## Jutsu
 - Clones can not passively recover fatigue over time (from effects such as Endless Energy, or Regenerative Chakra).  Upkeeps which may reduce penalties (such as Grudge Rain) work normally.

#### Taijutsu
 - Grab (E-rank Grapple) is explicit about fatigue offensive/defensive roll penalties applying to grapple rolls, in their respective contexts.
 - Rotation Strike (C-rank Weapon) has its effect stated as "Area" rather than "Range", to be more exact on how it functions.
 - First Storm of Spring (B-rank Weapon) has its damage multiplier capped at +200%, like normal for a large thrown weapon.
 - Ni no Hoshi (C-rank Weapon) had its Speed increaesed by 2 (to 5), and added CE cost increased to 10 (from 5), and adds half your PDB to your NDB for its damage, rather than a fourth.
 - San no Hoshi (B-rank Weapon) was added.  I didn't do it for the players.  I did it for *her*.
 - Ichi, Ni, and San no Hoshi are all defended against as ninjutsu projectiles, rather than "can only be parried by things which parry ninjutsu".
 - Devil's Rush (A-tank combo) had its damage, and Ignite, doubled (to +2d6 and +2 Ignite per Combo Counter, notably).
 - Fist of the North Star (B-rank Combo) had its Bleed increased to 2 per combo counter, from 1.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Dokugiri (B-rank General nin) had its Paralysis and Shock reverted to being a part of the poison (and thus persisting even after you leave the cloud, if you were poisoned by it)
 - Dorou Domu Kekkai (B-rank Doton) clarified that overflow damage from an AoE that breaks the dome affects those within its normal area and can be defended against.
 - Four Pillar Bind (B-rank Raiton) had its Area increased to a 25 x 25 square, and regained its effect that the user is immune to its effects.
 - Sixteen Pillar Bind (A-rank Raiton) similarly had its layers increased (reverted, really) to being 25 / 50 / 75 / 100 yards, with the user immune to its effects, though its damage per IC per layer was halved (from four, to two), its status effects were doubled (to 2 per layer) and its Upkeep was increased by 4 (to 12).
 - Both Sixteen Pillar Bind and Four Pillar Bind can no longer have their pillars attacked (to end the technique, or otherwise).
 - Eye of the East Wind (B-rank Fuuton) was reverted to being an Awareness roll against a Stealth roll from your opponent, rather than against their Stealth TN; this is to ensure that surprise or sneak attacks made while not hidden actually function properly.
 - Transcrption Seal (A-rank Sealing) had some added clarifications: techniques which utilize a Taijutsu Accuracy (separate from the restriction of not allowing Taijutsu themselves) can only target the person the seal was placed on, not anyone else.  Material components make a technique ineligible for transcription, with the sole exception of water, for Suiton.
 - Chakra Injection (B-rank Medical) is explicit about being unable to be used on an unwilling target.

## Equipment
 - Added rules for when two people try to retrieve a weapon on the same IC.  Most notably, you *must* look shyly into each other's eyes when you do it, otherwise the other person automatically gets it first.

## Talents
 - Salamander's Blood techniques (Red, Blue, and Black Blood, specifically) all state that giving them away to someone not contracted with the Salamanders is an automatic breach of contract.
 - The Three Great Monkey Statues were clarified in how they function when you attempt to summon them simultaneously, and their listing of Hit Points and DR was moved from the first statue to the general section above it.